GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
GLIMMORA  //  ENGINEERING ACADEMY 
AI Full Stack Developer 
Fresher Training Manual 
From zero to productive AI-native developer 
Your stack 
Next.js  •  Vercel  •  DigitalOcean  •  MongoDB Atlas  •  RunPod  •  Git  •  Jira 
Your AI partners 
Claude  •  Claude Code  •  Cursor  •  GitHub Copilot  •  Playwright  •  CodiumAI 
Edition 1.0  •  April 2026 
Prepared by AI & Backend Architecture  •  Ishan Agrawal 
Page 1 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual Edition 1.0 
Page 2 of 53 
Table of Contents 
 
Welcome Letter 3 
How to use this manual 4 
Part I — Foundations 
  Module 1: What is Full Stack, really? 5 
  Module 2: Backend layers 101 7 
  Module 3: Frontend fundamentals for the AI era 9 
Part II — Our Stack 
  Module 4: The Glimmora stack, mapped 11 
  Module 5: MongoDB Atlas for freshers 13 
  Module 6: Vercel & Next.js 15 
  Module 7: DigitalOcean & RunPod 17 
Part III — The AI Toolbelt 
  Module 8: Your AI pair programmers 19 
  Module 9: Code generation tools 21 
  Module 10: Testing & QA with AI 23 
  Module 11: DevOps with AI 25 
  Module 12: Vector DBs & ML stack 27 
  Module 13: Docs & knowledge 29 
Part IV — Working Smart 
  Module 14: The AI capability spectrum 30 
  Module 15: Prompt engineering for devs 32 
  Module 16: Daily workflow 34 
  Module 17: Code review & quality 36 
Part V — Ship It 
  Module 18: Your first 30 days 38 
  Module 19: 3 quick wins 39 
  Module 20: Common pitfalls 40 
Appendices 
  A. Tool cheat sheet 41 
  B. Command reference 42 
  C. Glossary 43 
  D. Further reading 44 
  
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Welcome Letter 
Hello, and welcome to Glimmora. 
You are joining the team at an unusual moment in software history. The way we write code today barely 
resembles how it was written five years ago. Pull requests are drafted by AI, tests are generated by AI, 
documentation is generated by AI, infrastructure is described in plain English. And yet the best engineers 
have never been more valuable. 
This sounds contradictory. It is not. The reason it is not is the subject of this entire manual. 
Here is the short version. AI has made the easy parts of our job much faster. Writing a CRUD endpoint, 
stubbing out tests, producing boilerplate, wiring up a Dockerfile, turning requirements into an OpenAPI 
spec — these tasks, which used to consume most of a fresher's first year, now take minutes. The hard 
parts of our job have not gotten easier. Choosing the right architecture, modeling the domain correctly, 
debugging a race condition in production at 2 a.m., understanding why a customer actually wants what 
they say they want — these still require a human who has internalized the craft. 
The goal of this manual is to get you to a place where you are genuinely useful at both. You will learn to 
lean on AI for the mechanical work so you can free up cycles for the hard work. You will learn our stack. 
You will learn where AI helps and — this is just as important — where AI will confidently mislead you. 
Read this manual at your own pace. Try things. Break things. Ask questions in Slack. Your buddy will pair 
with you for the first two weeks. By the end of week eight, we expect you to be shipping production code. 
Welcome aboard, 
The Engineering Team 
Page 3 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
How to use this manual 
This manual is designed to be skimmed, then revisited. You do not need to read it front to back before 
you write code. You need to read the first three modules, then start working, then refer back as situations 
come up. 
The five parts 
• Part I — Foundations. What full stack actually means in 2026, and the mental model of backend 
layers you will use for everything else. 
• Part II — Our Stack. The specific tools we run in production. Next.js on Vercel, Node backends on 
DigitalOcean, MongoDB Atlas, RunPod for GPU workloads. 
• Part III — The AI Toolbelt. Claude, Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot, Playwright, CodiumAI, and when 
to reach for each. 
• Part IV — Working Smart. Prompt engineering, daily workflow, code review, the capability 
spectrum. 
• Part V — Ship It. Your first 30 days, quick wins, and the pitfalls we have seen freshers fall into. 
Icons you will see 
 
  Insight 
Something worth internalizing — a concept that changes how you approach a problem. 
⚠️ Watch out 
A common mistake. Read carefully before skipping. 
 
 ️ Try this 
A hands-on exercise. Do it. Do not just read it. 
 
  Guardrail 
A policy or limit. Non-negotiable. 
Page 4 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
P ART I 
Foundations 
The mental models that outlast every tool 
Page 5 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 1 — What is Full Stack, really? 
A full stack developer is not someone who knows every technology on every layer. That person does not 
exist. A full stack developer is someone who can reason about the whole system — who knows which 
layer a problem lives in, who can hold the user's click and the database write in the same thought, and 
who is comfortable being less than expert on any single layer in exchange for being competent across all 
of them. 
1.1 The three axes 
Think of your work as living on three axes. You will rotate through them many times a day. 
Axis 
What it means 
Example question 
User-facing 
What the user sees and feels. 
Why does the dashboard flash white when it 
loads? 
Data-facing 
How information is stored, queried, and 
related. 
Ops-facing 
How the thing runs in production. 
Why is this list slow when we have 10,000 
rows? 
Why did the deploy fail on Tuesday night? 
1.2 The five skills a fresher should build first 
1. Read code confidently. You will spend more time reading code than writing it. Get comfortable 
scrolling through unfamiliar repositories and forming a mental map. 
2. Write a small change safely. A two-line bug fix with a test is a bigger deal than a hundred-line 
feature without one. Start small, ship often. 
3. Debug methodically. Bisect. Print. Re-read the error. Do not guess. Do not ask AI to guess for you 
either — give it evidence. 
4. Ask good questions. A good question includes what you tried, what you expected, and what you 
saw. This is true for Slack and for Claude. 
5. Own what you ship. Your name is on the commit. If it breaks, you are the first responder, not the 
reviewer. 
 
  Insight 
Page 6 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
You are not judged on lines of code. You are judged on problems solved, ambiguity reduced, and trust 
earned with the people around you. A one-line PR that fixes a six-month-old bug is worth more than a 
thousand-line PR that introduces one. 
1.3 The AI era changes what 'full stack' weighs 
Five years ago, being full stack meant memorizing syntax across many languages. Today, syntax is cheap 
— an AI can produce Ruby, Go, Rust, or TypeScript on demand. What is expensive is judgment. Knowing 
that a queue would be better than a cron job here. Knowing that this index will help reads but hurt writes. 
Knowing that the customer's real complaint is not what they typed in the ticket. 
This manual is heavy on judgment and light on syntax. When you need syntax, you will ask Claude. 
Page 7 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 2 — Backend layers 101 
Every production application we run has six layers. Understanding which layer a task lives on is the single 
most useful habit you can form, because it determines which AI tool to reach for, how much review the 
change needs, and how much of your own brain the problem deserves. 
Layer 
What lives here 
AI leverage 
API 
Endpoints, validation, auth middleware, rate limiting. 
Very high 
Business logic 
Domain rules, workflows, state machines, events. 
Medium 
Algorithms 
Optimization, scoring, ML inference, transformations. 
Low to medium 
Data 
ORM, caching, migrations, schema design, queries. 
High 
Integrations 
Third-party APIs, queues, webhooks, service comms. 
High 
Infrastructure 
Deploy, CI/CD, monitoring, logging, scaling. 
Very high 
2.1 Why the layers matter for AI adoption 
AI tools work best when you can tell them — and yourself — which layer you are on. The reason is simple. 
Layers with lots of conventional patterns (API handlers, migrations, Dockerfiles) have enormous amounts 
of training data behind them, so AI produces confident, mostly-correct output. Layers that are deeply 
specific to your domain (business logic, algorithm design) have almost no training data for your particular 
problem, so AI produces plausible-sounding output that is often wrong in subtle ways. 
2.2 The layer-to-tool map 
Here is the cheat sheet. Internalize it. Every task you pick up, ask: which layer is this? 
Layer 
Primary AI tool 
Human check needed 
API 
Claude Code scaffolds the endpoint. 
Auth, validation edge cases. 
Business logic 
Claude drafts, you rewrite. 
Domain correctness, every branch. 
Algorithms 
Claude suggests approaches. 
Correctness proof, benchmarks. 
Data 
Claude thinking mode for schema. 
Indexes, read/write patterns. 
Page 8 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Layer 
Primary AI tool 
Human check needed 
Integrations 
Claude Code for client setup. 
Retry policy, failure modes. 
Infrastructure 
Claude Code + Terraform/Pulumi. 
Cost, blast radius, rollback. 
⚠️ Watch out 
The layers are not cleanly separated in real code. A single pull request often touches three or four of 
them. The value of the mental model is not to file your work neatly — it is to remind you that a business
logic change deserves more thought than an endpoint scaffold, even when they sit in the same commit. 
Page 9 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 3 — Frontend fundamentals for the AI era 
We build our frontends in Next.js and ship them on Vercel. You will write React components every day. 
But 'writing React' in 2026 looks different from 2021 — you are mostly assembling, reviewing, and refining 
rather than typing JSX from memory. 
3.1 What you need to know cold 
• The React mental model. Components render because their props or state changed, or because a 
parent re-rendered. If you cannot explain why a component re-rendered, you cannot debug it. 
• Hooks. useState, useEffect, useMemo, useRef, useCallback, useContext. Know when each one is 
appropriate. Most bugs freshers ship involve useEffect. 
• Next.js App Router. Server components by default. Client components only when you need 
interactivity. The boundary between them is the most confusing thing in modern web 
development — expect to get it wrong a few times. 
• Data fetching. Server components fetch during render. Client components use SWR or TanStack 
Query. Never fetch in useEffect for initial data — that is a code smell. 
• Forms. Controlled vs uncontrolled. Server actions. Validation on both client and server, always. 
• Accessibility. Semantic HTML, keyboard navigation, ARIA only when semantic HTML cannot 
express the pattern. This is not optional. 
3.2 Styling 
We use Tailwind CSS with a small component library built on top of Radix primitives. Two practical rules: 
6. Do not write raw CSS unless you have checked with a senior. Tailwind utilities should cover ninety 
percent of cases. 
7. Do not invent colors. Use the design tokens defined in the theme file. If the color you want is not 
there, that is a conversation, not a decision you make alone. 
3.3 Using AI for frontend work 
Claude and Cursor are very good at generating components. They are less good at making those 
components feel cohesive with the rest of your app. When you ask for a component, include: 
• The design system primitives it must use (Button, Card, Input from our library). 
• The data shape it will receive, as a TypeScript type. 
• The loading and error states it must handle. 
• The accessibility requirements (keyboard? screen reader? RTL?). 
Page 10 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
 
 ️ Try this 
Open Cursor. Paste in a simple TypeScript type for a user profile. Ask it to generate a profile card 
component using our Button and Card primitives, with loading and error states, and keyboard-navigable 
edit controls. 
Then read every line. Do not accept any code you cannot explain in one sentence. 
Page 11 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
P ART II 
Our Stack 
What we run, and why 
Page 12 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 4 — The Glimmora stack, mapped 
Layer 
Here is what we run in production, end to end. Every fresher should be able to sketch this from memory 
by the end of week two. 
Platform 
Frontend 
Vercel + Next.js 
What it does 
Where AI plugs in 
Next.js hosting, edge functions, 
preview deploys, CDN. 
Claude generates 
components and pages. 
Backend 
DigitalOcean 
Droplets and App Platform, managed 
databases, networking. 
Database 
MongoDB Atlas 
Claude Code for server 
config and deploy. 
Claude for schema design 
and query optimization. 
Document DB, vector search, 
aggregation pipelines, Atlas Search. 
GPU / ML 
RunPod 
Serverless GPU, model serving, 
training, auto-scaling. 
Projects 
Jira 
Sprints, tickets, epics, workflow 
automation. 
Claude writes pipeline 
scripts and deploy configs. 
Claude drafts tickets and 
assists sprint planning. 
Version 
control 
Git / GitHub 
Branches, pull requests, Actions, CI/CD 
pipelines. 
4.1 Why we chose each piece 
Vercel 
Claude drafts PR 
descriptions, commit 
messages, CI/CD. 
Vercel is optimized for Next.js — zero-config deploys, preview URLs on every pull request, edge functions 
that run near the user. For the frontend this is as good as it gets. The tradeoff is vendor lock-in for some 
features (edge middleware, image optimization), which we accept because the developer productivity is 
unmatched. 
DigitalOcean 
DigitalOcean gives us enough cloud to run real workloads without the AWS/GCP learning curve. Droplets 
are just VMs. App Platform is a managed PaaS when we do not need the control. Managed databases are 
one click. The pricing is predictable. For a team our size, this is the right floor. 
MongoDB Atlas 
We chose Atlas for three reasons. One, our data is natively document-shaped — nested, flexible, evolving. 
Two, Atlas Vector Search means we do not need a separate vector database for most of our AI features. 
Page 13 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Three, the operational overhead is nearly zero — no backups to configure, no replica sets to manage, no 
failover playbook to write. 
RunPod 
RunPod gives us serverless GPUs at a fraction of AWS prices. We use it for model inference when we 
cannot use hosted APIs, for fine-tuning jobs, and for batch embedding generation. The tradeoff is that 
RunPod is scrappier than AWS — you will occasionally see rough edges. Worth it for the cost profile. 
Page 14 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 5 — MongoDB Atlas for freshers 
MongoDB is where most of your backend bugs will live and where most of your backend wins will come 
from. Learn it well. 
5.1 The document mindset 
In a relational database you normalize — one fact, one place, joined at query time. In MongoDB you 
embed — data that is read together lives together, even at the cost of duplication. This is not a worse 
model. It is a different model, optimized for a different set of tradeoffs: read performance, schema 
evolution, and the absence of a rigid schema enforcer. 
The practical rule: design your schema from your access patterns, not from your entity-relationship 
diagram. Ask what queries will run most often, then shape your documents so those queries are one 
lookup, not three. 
5.2 Things that will bite you 
• Unbounded arrays. If you embed an array that can grow without limit (comments on a post, 
events on a user), the document will eventually blow past the 16 MB limit. Use a separate 
collection with a foreign key once an array could grow past a few hundred items. 
• No joins — and you sometimes need them. $lookup exists but is expensive. If you need to join 
frequently, rethink the schema. 
• Indexes are not automatic. Every query you run regularly needs an index, or Mongo will scan every 
document in the collection. Use explain() liberally in development. 
• Atomic operations are per-document. Updating two documents is not atomic unless you use a 
transaction, and transactions come with a cost. Design so you rarely need them. 
5.3 Aggregation pipelines 
The aggregation framework is Mongo's most powerful feature and its most confusing. A pipeline is a list 
of stages — $match, $group, $project, $lookup, $unwind — each transforming the output of the previous. 
Once you get it, it is wonderful. Until then, every pipeline feels like staring at a puzzle. 
 
 ️ Try this 
Open MongoDB Compass. Connect to a development collection. Build an aggregation pipeline visually 
that: filters to records from the last 30 days, groups by a category field, counts each group, sorts by 
count descending, and limits to the top 10. 
Page 15 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Then ask Claude to translate it to the equivalent Node driver code. Compare what you built to what 
Claude produces. 
5.4 Vector search in Atlas 
Atlas Vector Search is a first-class feature. You can store embedding vectors alongside your documents 
and run $vectorSearch in an aggregation pipeline. This means — for most of our AI features — we do not 
need Pinecone, Weaviate, or any separate vector store. The vectors live next to the data they describe, 
which simplifies everything. 
You will use this for semantic search, for retrieval-augmented generation, and for similarity queries. 
Module 12 covers vector work in depth. 
Page 16 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 6 — Vercel & Next.js 
Our frontend runs on Vercel. Every pull request gets a preview URL. The main branch auto-deploys to 
production. It is a short feedback loop that makes shipping easy — so easy that you have to be deliberate 
about not shipping the wrong thing. 
6.1 The App Router, in one page 
• app/ is the routing root. Folders are URL segments. Files named page.tsx are rendered routes. 
• Components are server components by default. They render on the server, return HTML to the 
client, and have direct access to data sources. 
• Add 'use client' at the top of a file to make it a client component. Client components bundle 
JavaScript and ship to the browser. 
• The boundary matters. A client component can import other client components but cannot import 
server-only code. A server component can render a client component but cannot pass non
serializable props to it. 
• Layouts persist across routes. Loading.tsx and error.tsx define per-route states. Route groups 
(folders in parentheses) let you organize without affecting URLs. 
6.2 Edge vs Node runtimes 
Vercel functions can run on two runtimes. The Edge runtime is fast-starting, geographically distributed, 
and has a small API surface (Web standards only — no Node built-ins). The Node runtime is the full 
Node.js, slower to start, running in a single region. Choose Edge when latency matters and your code is 
light. Choose Node for anything involving heavy libraries, Mongo drivers, or Node-specific APIs. 
6.3 Preview deploys — your safety net 
Every PR gets a unique preview URL. This is not just a convenience — it is your test environment. Before 
you ask for review, open the preview, click through the affected flows, and verify the change you made. 
Screenshots or Loom clips in the PR description speed up review enormously. 
 
  Insight 
Vercel's feedback loop is short enough that you can get sloppy and still ship. Do not. Freshers who treat 
preview deploys as a replacement for local testing push bugs to production at twice the rate. Local first, 
preview second, prod third. 
Page 17 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Page 18 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 7 — DigitalOcean & RunPod 
Our backend services run on DigitalOcean. GPU workloads run on RunPod. These are the two platforms 
you will SSH into, deploy to, and occasionally curse at. 
7.1 DigitalOcean, at a glance 
• Droplets — plain Linux VMs. Use when you need full control or when running something that does 
not fit in a managed service. 
• App Platform — managed PaaS. Push a Git repo, get a running service. Handles builds, SSL, 
autoscaling. Our default for stateless services. 
• Managed databases — PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis. We use Redis here (cache, queues). Primary 
storage is Atlas. 
• Spaces — S3-compatible object storage. Use for file uploads, backups, static assets not served by 
Vercel. 
• Networking — VPCs, firewalls, load balancers. You will touch these when deploying new services. 
Always check the firewall. 
7.2 RunPod for GPU workloads 
We use RunPod in two modes. Serverless — pay per second, cold start in a few seconds, great for bursty 
inference. Pods — dedicated GPU instance, billed hourly, great for training jobs and sustained inference. 
The golden rule: always set a budget alert. A forgotten H100 pod costs more in a weekend than a fresher 
salary. Always. 
 
  Guardrail 
Budget alerts on RunPod are mandatory. If you spin up a pod, set an alert within five minutes. If you 
cannot set an alert, do not spin it up. 
Nobody has ever been yelled at for forgetting a budget alert. People have been yelled at for spending 
$4,000 on an idle GPU. 
7.3 Deploying, end to end 
The deployment flow you will follow for most services: 
8. Open a branch, make changes, push. 
9. Open a pull request. GitHub Actions runs tests, type checks, and lint. 
Page 19 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
10. Vercel builds a preview. DigitalOcean App Platform builds a staging environment. 
11. Reviewer approves. You merge. 
12. Main branch auto-deploys to production. 
13. You watch the dashboards for five minutes. Anything odd, you roll back. 
7.4 Using Claude Code for DevOps 
Claude Code is particularly strong here. It can generate Dockerfiles, GitHub Actions pipelines, DigitalOcean 
App spec files, and K8s manifests. It can also help you debug deploys that fail with opaque error messages. 
# Example: ask Claude Code for a deploy workflow 
$ claude 
> Generate a GitHub Actions workflow that: 
> - runs on push to main and PRs 
> - installs pnpm deps with caching 
> - runs tsc, eslint, and vitest 
> - builds a Docker image on main-branch pushes 
> - pushes the image to DigitalOcean Container Registry 
> - triggers a deploy to the App Platform 
>  
> The repo uses pnpm and is a TypeScript Node 20 service. 
Page 20 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
P ART III 
The AI Toolbelt 
The right tool for the right job 
Page 21 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 8 — Your AI pair programmers 
You will work with three distinct AI tools every day. Each one has a niche. Using the wrong one for the 
wrong job feels slow, produces bad output, and makes AI feel less useful than it is. Knowing when to reach 
for which is most of the skill. 
8.1 The three main roles 
Tool 
Interaction model 
Best for 
Claude (chat) 
Open chat with thinking mode 
for complex reasoning. 
Architecture, schema design, debugging a tricky 
problem, writing documentation, code review, 'why 
is this broken'. 
Claude Code 
Terminal agent that reads your 
repo and makes edits across 
files. Runs commands. 
Cursor / Copilot 
Inline completion and chat inside 
your editor. 
Multi-file refactors, feature implementation, 
generating tests, setting up CI/CD, migrations. 
Writing code you already know how to write — just 
faster. Tab-tab boilerplate. Small edits. 
8.2 When to use which 
Reach for Claude (chat) when: 
• You do not yet know what you want to build. You want to think out loud. 
• A bug is weird and you need a second brain to reason through it. 
• You are choosing between two approaches and want the tradeoffs laid out. 
• You need documentation, a README, or a runbook written. 
• You are doing a code review and want a sanity check. 
Reach for Claude Code when: 
• You know what you want to build and need it scaffolded across several files. 
• You need to run a refactor that touches many call sites. 
• You need tests generated for an existing module. 
• You are writing infrastructure code (Dockerfile, workflow, IaC) from a spec. 
• You want a long-running task done while you do something else. 
Page 22 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Reach for Cursor / Copilot when: 
• You are writing code inline and want the next five lines suggested. 
• You are in flow and do not want to context-switch to a chat. 
• You need a small transformation applied to a selection. 
⚠️ Watch out 
A very common fresher mistake: using Cursor chat for things that should be a Claude Code task, or using 
Claude Code for things that should be a two-line Cursor autocomplete. The telltale sign is when you are 
fighting the tool. If you are fighting, step back — you are probably using the wrong one. 
Page 23 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 9 — Code generation tools 
Tool 
This is the deep dive on the code-generation side of the toolbelt. Read this once, then refer back when 
you are trying to decide. 
Strengths 
Claude Code 
Reads the whole repo. Runs tests. Multi-file. 
Great for backend. 
Weaknesses 
Slower than inline. Overkill for trivial 
tasks. 
GitHub 
Copilot 
Fast inline suggestions. Low friction. Works in 
every IDE. 
Cursor 
AI-native IDE. Chat + complete + composer in one 
tool. 
No repo-wide context. Can suggest 
plausible-but-wrong code. 
Yet another editor to learn. Composer is 
powerful but can over-edit. 
Aider 
CLI, auto-commits, LLM-agnostic. Fast feedback 
loop. 
9.1 The standard fresher setup 
Steeper learning curve. Less polished 
UX. 
14. Install Cursor as your primary editor. Open it, sign in, let it index our main repository. 
15. Install Claude Code. Open a terminal in the repo root and run claude. Let it read the repository. 
16. Optional: enable Copilot inside Cursor for extra inline suggestions. Some people find the dual 
suggestion noisy — try both ways for a week. 
9.2 A good first prompt for Claude Code 
Here is a prompt pattern that works well. It includes the what, the why, the constraints, and the checks. 
I need to add a new API endpoint to the orders service. 
GOAL: POST /api/orders/:id/cancel cancels an order. 
RULES: - Only the order owner or an admin can cancel. - Orders in state 'shipped' or 'delivered' cannot be cancelled. - Cancellation must emit an event to the 'order.cancelled' queue. - Returns 200 with the updated order, or 4xx with a reason. 
CONSTRAINTS: - Use our existing middleware for auth (see src/middleware/auth.ts). 
Page 24 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 - Use the Order model in src/models/Order.ts. - Follow the pattern in src/routes/orders/fulfill.ts. 
PLEASE: 
1. Show me your plan before editing any files. 
2. Write the route handler and its unit tests. 
3. Do not touch unrelated files. 
 
  Insight 
The most underrated Claude Code behavior is 'show me your plan before editing.' This one line turns it 
from an autonomous agent that might go off the rails into a collaborator you approve step by step. Use 
it on anything non-trivial. 
Page 25 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual Edition 1.0 
Page 26 of 53 
Module 10 — Testing & QA with AI 
Testing is the highest-ROI place to apply AI. AI is genuinely good at writing tests — often better than a 
human rushing to meet a deadline — and the value compounds with every regression it catches. 
 
10.1 The testing pyramid, still true 
The old rule still holds. Many fast unit tests at the bottom, fewer integration tests in the middle, a small 
number of end-to-end tests on top. AI changes the cost of each layer, not the shape of the pyramid. 
 
Layer Tool Target count Typical runtime 
Unit Vitest / Jest / pytest + Claude Code Thousands Milliseconds 
Integration Vitest with test containers + Claude 
Code Hundreds Seconds 
End-to-end Playwright + Claude Code Tens Minutes 
Load k6 + Claude (as a scenario writer) A handful Minutes to hours 
 
10.2 Unit tests with Claude Code 
For any module you are about to modify, ask Claude Code to write tests for the current behavior first. This 
is the single best habit you can build. It protects you from introducing regressions while changing the code, 
and it documents the existing behavior in a way that survives personnel changes. 
$ claude 
  
> Please read src/services/pricing.ts and write a comprehensive 
> set of unit tests using Vitest. 
> 
> - Cover every branch in the function. 
> - Include a test for each documented rule in the JSDoc. 
> - Add tests for edge cases you find: negative prices, zero 
>   quantity, currency mismatches, rounding boundaries. 
> - Use the existing test helpers in src/test/helpers.ts. 
> - Do not mock anything that can be tested for real. 
> 
> Show me the test plan first. I will approve it before you write. 
 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
10.3 End-to-end tests with Playwright 
Playwright is our E2E tool. Claude Code can generate Playwright tests from a user story. The output is 
usually ninety percent correct and ten percent needs-human-eyes — the ten percent being selectors that 
are brittle and assertions that need tightening. 
10.4 CodiumAI (Qodo) for edge cases 
CodiumAI is a dedicated test-generation tool that is especially good at finding edge cases a human would 
miss. We use it in addition to Claude Code, not instead — it surfaces behavioral coverage gaps that a 
natural-language prompt rarely catches. 
 
 ️ Try this 
Pick any module in our codebase that has fewer than 40% test coverage. Use Claude Code to generate a 
test suite. Run it. Commit the ones that pass. Submit a PR titled 'tests: add coverage to [module]'. 
This is the single fastest way to become visibly useful in your first two weeks. 
Page 27 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 11 — DevOps with AI 
DevOps is a layer where AI provides huge leverage because so much of it is configuration files, YAML, and 
commands with fixed structure. Spend five minutes writing a prompt and save two hours of 
StackOverflow. 
11.1 Dockerfiles 
Every service we ship has a Dockerfile. Claude Code can write an optimized multi-stage Dockerfile for any 
of our service types. Ask for multi-stage, non-root user, health check, and minimal base image — these 
are our house rules. 
# Ask Claude Code: 
# "Write a production Dockerfile for a TypeScript Node 20 service 
#  using pnpm. Multi-stage build, non-root user, health check on 
#  /healthz, minimal alpine base. Copy only the built artifacts 
#  and production deps to the final stage." 
11.2 GitHub Actions 
Our CI/CD runs on GitHub Actions. Every repo has a workflow that runs on PR: tests, type check, lint, 
security scan. On merge to main, we build and deploy. Claude Code can scaffold an entire workflow from 
a description — then you tune it. 
11.3 Infrastructure as code 
We use Pulumi for any non-trivial cloud resources. Terraform where Pulumi does not fit. Both play well 
with AI — you describe the infrastructure you want in plain English, the AI produces the code, you review 
it before applying. 
 
  Guardrail 
Never apply IaC changes you did not write or cannot fully explain. 'Claude wrote it' is not an acceptable 
answer when production is down. 
Infrastructure changes are reviewed by a senior, always. No exceptions. 
Page 28 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 12 — Vector DBs & ML stack 
Modern AI features — semantic search, RAG, recommendations, similarity matching — depend on storing 
and querying vectors. This module covers the basics and our specific toolset. 
12.1 What is an embedding, really? 
An embedding is a list of numbers — usually 384, 768, or 1,536 of them — produced by a model from a 
piece of text, an image, or other input. The magic is that two inputs with similar meaning produce 
embeddings that are close together in this high-dimensional space. 'Cancel my subscription' and 'How do 
I unsubscribe' land near each other; 'Cancel my subscription' and 'The stock market rose today' do not. 
A vector database is optimized to answer the query: given this vector, find the N most similar vectors in 
the collection. Everything else — RAG, semantic search, personalization — is an application of that one 
primitive. 
12.2 Our vector tools 
Tool 
When we use it 
Tradeoff 
MongoDB Atlas 
Vector Search 
Default. Vectors live alongside 
documents. Most RAG use cases. 
Lower ceiling on scale and latency vs 
purpose-built stores. 
Pinecone 
When we need sub-10 ms latency at 
high QPS or large scale. 
FAISS (on RunPod) 
Batch jobs, offline similarity, research. 
Separate service to maintain. Costlier. 
Not a server — a library. We wrap it 
ourselves. 
ChromaDB 
Prototyping, local development, tiny 
collections. 
12.3 A minimal RAG workflow 
Not meant for production. 
17. Split your source documents into chunks — usually 500 to 1,500 tokens each, with some overlap. 
18. Embed each chunk with an embedding model (we use OpenAI text-embedding-3-small for cost, or 
a self-hosted model on RunPod for volume). 
19. Store the embeddings in Atlas, with the chunk text and any metadata, in the same collection as 
the logical document they came from. 
Page 29 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
20. When a user asks a question, embed the question with the same model, run $vectorSearch to find 
the top N most similar chunks, and pass those chunks as context to the LLM. 
21. The LLM answers the question grounded in the retrieved context. It cites the chunk(s) it used. 
 
  Insight 
Ninety percent of 'RAG is not working' bugs are actually 'my chunking strategy is bad' bugs. Start by 
inspecting what comes back from the vector search before blaming the model. If the right chunk is not in 
the top 5, the model never had a chance. 
Page 30 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 13 — Docs & knowledge 
Documentation used to be the thing every fresher had to suffer through writing. In 2026 you should 
almost never write documentation from scratch. But you do need to own it — review it, keep it true, and 
organize it so the team can find it. 
13.1 Our tools 
Tool 
Purpose 
Authored by 
Obsidian 
Internal knowledge base — architecture 
decisions, runbooks, research notes. 
You. Claude helps draft. 
Mintlify 
Hosted API documentation for customer-facing 
APIs. 
Swagger / OpenAPI 
API contract. Source of truth for Mintlify. 
Generated from OpenAPI specs. 
Claude drafts from code; human 
reviews. 
Eraser.io 
Architecture diagrams, sequence diagrams, ER 
diagrams. 
13.2 The Obsidian vault 
Claude writes the diagram code; 
you review. 
Every engineer has access to our shared Obsidian vault. It is local-first Markdown — the files live on your 
laptop, sync is via Git. There are three things you should expect to put there: 
• Architecture decision records (ADRs). Any non-trivial decision — 'we chose Atlas over DynamoDB 
because X' — gets a two-page ADR. Claude drafts it from the context of the conversation that led 
to the decision. 
• Runbooks. Step-by-step instructions for operational tasks: 'how to rotate the DigitalOcean API 
key', 'how to bulk-reindex Atlas vectors'. Every on-call incident produces a runbook the next day. 
• Onboarding notes. As a fresher, this manual is your first one — but you should keep your own 
running notes in Obsidian. Future-you will thank you. 
13.3 API documentation 
Customer-facing API documentation is generated from our OpenAPI spec by Mintlify. Our rule: the spec 
is authoritative, not the docs. If the spec and the docs disagree, the spec wins and the docs get 
regenerated. 
Page 31 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Your job is to keep the spec current as you add endpoints. Claude Code can write the spec entries from 
the code, but always read what it produced — the spec is a contract, and a wrong spec is worse than no 
spec. 
Page 32 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
P ART IV 
Working Smart 
Where your brain still matters 
Page 33 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 14 — The AI capability spectrum 
Before you start a task, ask one question: where on this spectrum does it sit? The answer determines how 
much you trust the AI and how much you own the outcome. 
14.1 Green zone — AI handles this well 
• Boilerplate code generation — CRUD handlers, models, middleware, schemas. 
• Unit and integration tests — test generation, edge-case discovery, mock setup. 
• API documentation — OpenAPI entries, README sections, inline docs. 
• Code refactoring — extract, rename, simplify, modernize syntax. 
• CI/CD pipelines — GitHub Actions, Dockerfiles, deploy configs. 
• Database migrations — schema changes, rollbacks, simple queries. 
14.2 Yellow zone — AI assists, human drives 
• Schema and data modeling — AI suggests, you validate domain fit. 
• Performance optimization — AI finds bottlenecks, you pick the tradeoff. 
• Integration architecture — AI drafts, you know the system limits. 
• Complex debugging — AI traces code, you supply context. 
• Test strategy — AI generates tests, you decide scope and priority. 
• Security implementation — AI follows patterns, you model threats. 
14.3 Red zone — human expertise essential 
• Algorithm and business-logic design — domain rules, optimization, edge cases. 
• Architecture decisions — microservices vs monolith, sharding, scaling strategy. 
• Tradeoff decisions — cost vs performance, consistency vs availability. 
• Domain understanding — why rules exist, compliance, the customer's real intent. 
• Incident response — real-time judgment under pressure, with partial information. 
• Quality ownership — standards, mentoring, long-term maintainability. 
 
  Insight 
Page 34 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
The gradient is not about capability — it is about grounding. AI is good at things that have a lot of 
training data and objective right answers. AI is less good at things that are specific to your system, your 
customers, your tradeoffs. 
Your job is to be the grounded one. Bring context to the AI. Then critique what it gives back. 
Page 35 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 15 — Prompt engineering for devs 
A prompt is not magic. It is a technical spec delivered in English. The same discipline you apply to a function 
signature applies to a prompt — be specific about inputs, outputs, constraints, and edge cases. 
15.1 The CLEAR framework 
Letter 
Stands for 
Example 
C 
Context. What are we doing, 
what system are we in? 
'We run a Next.js 14 app on Vercel, MongoDB Atlas for storage.' 
L 
Language or constraints. What 
are the hard limits? 
'TypeScript strict mode. No new dependencies.' 
E 
Example. Show an example of 
the input or desired output. 
'Here is an existing route that follows our pattern: [code]' 
A 
Action. What exact output do 
you want? 
'Write the route handler and its unit tests.' 
R 
Review. How will we know it is 
right? 
'Show me your plan first. I will approve before you write files.' 
15.2 Patterns that work 
• Give it one job. Multi-part prompts degrade output quality. If you have three tasks, three prompts. 
• Provide the actual file, not a description of the file. Paste in the TypeScript type. Paste in the 
existing function. Paste in the error. 
• Ask for a plan first on anything non-trivial. 'Before writing, tell me what you plan to do' is the 
single most valuable phrase. 
• Constrain the output format. 'Return only the TypeScript code, no prose.' Or: 'Return a numbered 
list of changes you would make, nothing else.' 
• Tell it what to not do. 'Do not introduce new dependencies. Do not modify files outside 
src/routes/.' 
15.3 Patterns that fail 
• Vague goals. 'Make it faster' produces 'faster-looking' code that may not actually be faster. 
Page 36 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
• Too much context. If you dump the whole repo as context, the model gets confused about what 
matters. Curate. 
• Trusting the first output. The first answer is a draft. Iterate. 
• Not reading the output. Every line you accept without reading is a line you own without 
understanding. 
⚠️ Watch out 
AI models are confident in the same tone whether they are right or wrong. They do not say 'I think'. They 
say 'here is the answer.' You have to be the skeptic. Read, run, test — always. 
Page 37 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 16 — Daily workflow 
Day 
Phase 
Here is how the AI-assisted sprint looks from the inside. This is not prescriptive — adapt it — but the shape 
should feel familiar by the end of your first month. 
What you do 
Which tools 
Day 0 
Sprint kick 
Planning, design, ticket drafting, 
ADRs. 
Claude (chat), Eraser.io, Jira, 
Obsidian. 
Day 1–2 
Schema & scaffold 
DB schema design, API scaffolding, 
migrations, structured commits. 
Day 3–5 
Build & test 
Business logic, boilerplate, E2E 
tests, edge cases. 
Claude (thinking), Claude Code, Git. 
Claude Code, Playwright, CodiumAI, 
Cursor. 
Day 6–7 
Integrate & 
deploy 
Docker, CI/CD, performance tests, 
docs. 
Day 8 
Review & ship 
Code review, security scan, runbook 
updates, ticket closeout. 
Claude Code, DigitalOcean, k6, 
Mintlify. 
Claude, Snyk, Obsidian, Jira. 
Ongoing 
Maintain & learn 
Production debugging, learnings 
capture, refactors, regression tests. 
16.1 A sample day 
Here is roughly what your Tuesday might look like in month two. 
Claude (chat), Obsidian, Claude 
Code, k6. 
• 09:30 — Standup. Update Jira. Pick up your next ticket. If the ticket is unclear, ask Claude to help 
you turn it into a concrete spec with acceptance criteria. 
• 10:00 — Write the test first. Claude Code generates a failing test for the behavior you want. You 
run it, see it fail, commit the test. 
• 10:30 — Implement. Cursor's tab-complete handles most of the lines. Claude Code handles cross
file plumbing. You review every diff before accepting. 
• 12:30 — Lunch. Actually lunch. Do not work through lunch. 
• 13:30 — Tests pass locally. You open a PR. Claude drafts the description from the commits. You 
edit it to remove anything that is not actually true. 
• 14:00 — CI goes green. Preview deploy comes up on Vercel. You walk through the changed flows 
manually on the preview URL. 
• 15:00 — Reviewer asks a question. You answer. They approve. You merge. 
• 15:30 — Next ticket. 
Page 38 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
• 17:30 — Wrap up. Update Jira. Note anything you learned in Obsidian. Close laptop. 
 
  Insight 
The day above is not unusually productive. It is a normal Tuesday. What makes it feel smooth is that no 
single step is a battle — because you did not skip any of the earlier steps. Skip the test, skip the preview 
check, skip the documentation, and the 'fast' day turns into a week of hotfixes. 
Page 39 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 17 — Code review & quality 
Code review is where you will learn the most from senior engineers in your first year. It is also where AI 
has a specific, limited, useful role. 
17.1 Reviewing your own PR 
Before you mark a PR ready for review, review it yourself. Open the files-changed tab. Read every line as 
if someone else wrote it. Ask: 
• Does every change belong in this PR, or did I accidentally commit something unrelated? 
• Are there any debug prints, console.logs, or TODOs I meant to remove? 
• Does the test coverage match the changes? 
• Is the PR title and description specific enough that someone reading it in six months will know 
what it did? 
Then, and only then, have Claude review it. Ask: 'Review this diff for bugs, security issues, and anti
patterns. Do not repeat style feedback our linter already catches.' 
17.2 Reviewing someone else's PR 
You will review PRs from week four onward. Your reviews matter — even as a fresher, you catch things 
others miss precisely because you have fresh eyes. 
22. Read the PR description first. Understand the intent before looking at the code. 
23. Look at the tests. What does the author say the code should do? 
24. Read the code against that intent. 
25. If you do not understand something, ask. Do not approve. 'Can you explain why X?' is a perfectly 
professional review comment. 
26. Leave comments that help, not comments that show off. A good comment suggests a fix, or asks a 
question, or shares context. 
17.3 What AI cannot review well 
• Domain correctness — AI does not know that 'cancellation' means something specific in our billing 
system. 
• Cross-PR consistency — AI reviews one diff at a time, not the pattern across a sprint. 
• Intent vs implementation mismatch — AI will tell you the code works, not that it solves the wrong 
problem. 
Page 40 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
• Subtle security issues that depend on knowing how a user actually uses the product. 
⚠️ Watch out 
Never approve a PR based on 'AI said it looks good.' Your name on the approval means you read it. If you 
have not read it, you have not reviewed it. 
This is a firm team norm. 
Page 41 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
P ART V 
Ship It 
Your first 30 days, and how not to waste them 
Page 42 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 18 — Your first 30 days 
Here is a concrete week-by-week plan. You are not expected to hit every bullet — this is a map, not a 
checklist. Your buddy will adjust it to your background. 
Week 1 — Orient 
• Laptop provisioned. Accounts created for Vercel, DigitalOcean, Atlas, RunPod, GitHub, Jira, Slack. 
• Local dev environment working. You can clone the main repo, run it, see the app at localhost. 
• Installed: Cursor, Claude Code, Obsidian, MongoDB Compass. 
• Read Modules 1–4 of this manual. 
• Shipped your first PR: a documentation fix or a typo. Yes, really. Get the workflow under your 
fingers. 
Week 2 — Contribute 
• Pair with your buddy on a real ticket. You drive, they navigate. 
• Read Modules 5–8. 
• Generated your first test suite with Claude Code for an under-tested module. 
• Shipped a small feature — 1–2 files, <200 lines. 
• Attended your first sprint planning. 
Week 3 — Own 
• Picked up a ticket solo. Followed the full flow — spec, tests, implementation, PR, preview, review, 
ship. 
• Read Modules 9–13. 
• Wrote your first architecture decision record in Obsidian, for a small decision on your ticket. 
• Reviewed someone else's PR for the first time. 
• Had your first production bug (statistically likely). Wrote a runbook about it. 
Week 4 — Accelerate 
• Read Modules 14–17. 
• Shipping 2–3 tickets per week. 
• Took part in an on-call shadow, observing how a senior responds to alerts. 
• Identified one area of the codebase you want to deepen on. Told your manager. 
Page 43 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
• First one-on-one retrospective with your manager. Honest feedback both directions. 
Page 44 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 19 — 3 quick wins 
If you want to prove AI-assisted development works — to yourself and to your team — here are the three 
highest-ROI, lowest-risk things to do in your first two weeks. 
Win 1 — Install Claude Code today, generate tests tomorrow 
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code 
cd <our-main-repo> 
claude 
> Write unit tests for the most under-tested module in this repo. 
> Show me the plan before you write any files. 
Expected outcome: 60–70% time savings versus writing the same tests by hand. Measure it. A Jira ticket 
with before-and-after numbers is the most convincing artifact you can produce. 
Win 2 — AI-assisted code review 
Before every PR you open, run Claude against the diff. Ask for bugs, security issues, and anti-patterns — 
not style feedback the linter catches. Human reviewers then focus on architecture and domain logic rather 
than 'you forgot a null check.' 
• Claude scans the PR diff automatically. 
• It flags likely bugs, security gaps, and anti-patterns. 
• Human reviewer focuses on architecture and domain. 
• Expected: 40–50% faster reviews. 
Win 3 — Playwright test automation 
Pick a critical user flow that has no E2E test. Ask Claude Code to generate a Playwright test for it. Add it 
to GitHub Actions so it runs on every PR. Congratulations, you just prevented a regression class. 
• Claude generates the Playwright script. 
• You add it to the CI/CD pipeline via GitHub Actions. 
• Tests run on every PR automatically. 
• Expected: noticeable drop in production bugs in the covered flows. 
Page 45 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
 
  Insight 
All three wins share a pattern: measure, then expand. Start small, show the data, then argue for more. A 
team convinced by numbers will trust you when you propose bigger changes in month two. 
Page 46 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Module 20 — Common pitfalls 
These are the mistakes we have watched freshers make. You will probably make at least one of them. The 
goal is to make it no more than once. 
Pitfall 1 — Treating AI output as finished code 
Symptom: 'Claude wrote it, so it should work.' Reality: Claude writes plausible code. Plausible is not 
correct. Read every line. Run every test. Every single time. 
Pitfall 2 — Skipping the spec 
Symptom: jumping to Cursor and asking it to 'build the feature' without first writing down what the 
feature is. Result: a lot of code that does not quite solve the problem. Write the spec first, even if the spec 
is three sentences. Then build. 
Pitfall 3 — Ignoring the layer boundaries 
Symptom: putting business logic in a route handler. Putting SQL in a service function. Mixing data access 
with view rendering. Review your changes against Module 2. If a function does three things across three 
layers, split it up. 
Pitfall 4 — The 1000-line PR 
Symptom: two weeks of work in one pull request that nobody wants to review. You will get rubber-stamp 
approvals for things that deserved real scrutiny. Break it up. If it cannot be broken up, you designed it 
wrong. 
Pitfall 5 — Silent failures 
Symptom: a try/catch that swallows the error and logs 'something went wrong'. Every error deserves 
either a useful log line with context, a retry, or a raised exception. Silent failures are where production 
bugs breed. 
Pitfall 6 — Not asking for help 
Page 47 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Symptom: three days stuck on something a senior could resolve in twenty minutes. Rule of thumb: if you 
have been blocked for more than two hours, ask. Your time is more expensive than a senior's attention. 
Ask in Slack with what you tried, what you expected, what you saw. 
Pitfall 7 — Leaning on AI for the hard stuff 
Symptom: asking Claude to design the whole architecture. Asking Claude to decide the business rule. 
Asking Claude to decide the tradeoff. AI does not own the outcome — you do. The hard decisions are 
yours. AI can lay out options; you choose. 
 
  Guardrail 
A final firm rule: do not paste customer data, credentials, or secrets into any AI tool. Ever. Use scrubbed 
or synthetic data. Check twice before hitting enter. 
This is a termination-level mistake. 
Page 48 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual Edition 1.0 
Page 49 of 53 
Appendix A — Tool cheat sheet 
Every backend task, the primary tool, the alternative. Drawn from the training deck that originated this 
manual. 
 
# Backend task Primary tool Alternative 
01 API scaffolding Claude Code Cursor 
02 Database schema Claude (thinking mode) Prisma AI 
03 MongoDB queries Claude Code + Compass DataGrip AI 
04 Vector embeddings Atlas $vectorSearch Pinecone / FAISS 
05 Unit testing Claude Code + Vitest / pytest CodiumAI (Qodo) 
06 E2E testing Claude Code + Playwright Cypress AI 
07 Load testing Claude + k6 Locust 
08 Architecture design Claude (extended thinking) Eraser.io 
09 CI/CD pipelines Claude Code + GitHub Actions Copilot 
10 Docker / DigitalOcean Claude Code Pulumi AI 
11 RunPod GPU deploy Claude Code Docker + CLI 
12 API documentation Mintlify + Claude Swagger + Claude 
13 Knowledge base Obsidian + Claude Notion AI 
14 Jira tickets Claude drafts + Jira API Linear AI 
15 Code refactoring Claude Code Aider 
16 Security scanning Claude + Snyk GitHub Advanced 
  
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual Edition 1.0 
Page 50 of 53 
Appendix B — Command reference 
Getting set up 
# Install Node and pnpm (macOS) 
brew install node@20 pnpm 
  
# Install Claude Code 
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code 
  
# Install the docx helper (for docs generation) 
npm install -g docx 
  
# Clone the main repo 
git clone git@github.com:Glimmora/<repo>.git 
cd <repo> 
pnpm install 
pnpm dev 
 
Claude Code 
# Start Claude Code in the current repo 
claude 
  
# Ask it to plan before acting 
> Tell me your plan before editing any files. 
  
# Limit its scope 
> Only modify files in src/routes/. Do not touch anything else. 
 
Git workflow 
# Create a branch for your ticket 
git checkout -b <your-name>/<jira-id>-short-description 
  
# Commit often with structured messages 
git commit -m "feat(orders): add cancel endpoint" 
git commit -m "test(orders): cover cancel endpoint edge cases" 
  
# Push and open a PR 
git push -u origin HEAD 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
MongoDB quick tools 
# Connect via mongosh to a dev cluster 
mongosh "mongodb+srv://<cluster>.mongodb.net/" --username <user> 
# Explain a query to see index usage 
db.orders.find({ status: "pending" }).explain("executionStats") 
Page 51 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Appendix C — Glossary 
ADR                   
Agent                 
App Router            
Atlas                 
Chunking              
Claude Code           
Context               
CRUD                  
Droplet               
Edge function         
Embedding             
Hallucination         
IaC                   
RAG                   
Runbook               
Architecture Decision Record. A short document capturing a significant technical decision and 
its rationale. 
An AI system that can take actions — run commands, edit files — not just produce text. 
The Next.js routing system built on the app/ directory, default in Next.js 13+. 
MongoDB's managed cloud service. Our primary database. 
Splitting a document into pieces before embedding, for RAG. 
Terminal AI agent that reads your repo and edits code across files. 
The input a model has access to when producing output. Includes prompt, attached files, and 
prior conversation. 
Create, Read, Update, Delete. The four basic database operations. 
A virtual machine on DigitalOcean. 
A small function that runs close to the user on a distributed runtime. 
A numeric vector representing the meaning of text, image, or other input. 
When an AI model produces output that sounds correct but is factually wrong. 
Infrastructure as Code. Defining cloud resources in version-controlled configuration files. 
Retrieval-Augmented Generation. Fetching relevant documents and passing them as context 
to an LLM. 
Step-by-step instructions for an operational task, usually for incident response. 
Server component      
Thinking mode         
Vector search         
A React component that renders on the server by default in the Next.js App Router. 
A Claude mode where the model reasons at length before answering. 
Finding nearby vectors in a high-dimensional space — the basis of semantic search. 
Page 52 of 53 
GLIMMORA  //  AI Full Stack Training Manual 
Edition 1.0 
Appendix D — Further reading 
You will never finish learning any of these topics. That is the job. Here is where to keep going. 
Books 
• Designing Data-Intensive Applications — Martin Kleppmann. The definitive book on how real 
systems handle data. Read it slowly, over a year. 
• The Pragmatic Programmer — Hunt & Thomas. Still the best book on the craft of being a software 
engineer. 
• A Philosophy of Software Design — John Ousterhout. Short, pointed, will reshape how you think 
about modularity. 
• Site Reliability Engineering — Google. Free online. The ops half of our job, done by the people who 
wrote the playbook. 
Documentation you will refer to weekly 
• Next.js docs — nextjs.org/docs. The App Router section especially. 
• MongoDB manual — docs.mongodb.com. The aggregation pipeline reference is dense but worth 
it. 
• Vercel docs — vercel.com/docs. Short and practical. 
• Anthropic docs — docs.claude.com. Claude Code, prompting guides, best practices. 
Internal resources 
• The Glimmora Obsidian vault — our collective brain. Update it when you learn something. 
• #engineering Slack channel — ask questions, share what you build. 
• Weekly tech share — Friday 4pm. Present something you learned; watch others do the same. 
AI tools make good developers faster. They are a multiplier, not a replacement. 
Be a good developer first. The multiplier takes care of itself. 
— End of Manual — 
Page 53 of 53 