
GLIMMORA INTERNATIONAL
Learning & Development Division

The Full-Stack Developer
Trainee Handbook
An In-Depth Guide for Third-Year Students

Frontend  •  Backend  •  Databases  •  Architecture
Git & Collaboration  •  DevOps  •  AI Prompting
Concepts, code, and professional practice
Prepared by Glimmora International
All rights reserved
 
 
Table of Contents


 
1. Welcome and How to Use This Handbook
Welcome to the Glimmora International developer training programme. This handbook is your companion as you grow from a capable student into a professional full-stack developer ready for industry work. It assumes you already have programming fundamentals — variables, functions, loops, basic data structures — and builds the deeper, practical knowledge that university courses often leave for the workplace.
Every section is written to be read, applied immediately on a real project, and revisited. Depth matters more than speed: it is better to understand five concepts thoroughly than to skim twenty.
How to study this handbook
Read one section, then immediately apply it on your assigned project.
Keep a personal notes file of commands, patterns, and 'aha' moments.
When a concept is unclear, build the smallest possible example to test it.
Revisit the frontend, backend, and Git sections repeatedly — mastery comes from repetition.
Ask questions early and often. Curiosity is expected of you, not penalised.
 
2. The Full-Stack Landscape
"Full-stack" means you can work confidently across every layer that makes an application function — from the interface in the browser, through the server logic, to the database, and the infrastructure that runs it all. You are not expected to master everything at once. The goal is fluency: understanding how the pieces fit together and being able to contribute meaningfully at any layer.
2.1 The Layers of the Stack
Layer	Responsibility	Common technologies
Frontend	The user interface, interactivity, and presentation	HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Vue
Backend	Business logic, authentication, request processing	Node.js, Python, Java, .NET
API layer	The contract that lets frontend and backend talk	REST, GraphQL, JSON
Database	Persistent storage and retrieval of data	PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Redis
DevOps	Hosting, deployment, monitoring, scaling	Docker, CI/CD, cloud platforms
2.2 How a Single Request Flows Through the Stack
The clearest way to picture full-stack development is to follow one user action all the way through the system:
1.	A user clicks a button in the browser (frontend).
2.	The frontend sends an HTTP request to the server through an API.
3.	Middleware on the server runs: it logs the request, parses the body, and verifies the user is authenticated.
4.	The handler executes business logic and checks the user's permissions.
5.	The backend queries the database to read or write the needed data.
6.	A response with a status code and data travels back through the API.
7.	The frontend receives it, updates its state, and re-renders what the user sees.
Trainee mindset
Don't try to memorise frameworks. Understand the flow above and you can learn any tool.
For every feature, ask: where does this data come from, and where is it going?
When something breaks, trace the request step by step — the bug lives at one of these stages.
 
3. Frontend Development In Depth
The frontend is everything the user directly interacts with: the rendered interface, its responsiveness, and the logic that keeps what is on screen in sync with the underlying data. Modern frontend development is dominated by component-based libraries such as React, so this section explains the core concepts you will use every day. Even if your team uses Vue or Angular, the underlying ideas are nearly identical.
3.1 Components and the Rendering Model
A component is a reusable, self-contained piece of UI — a button, a form, a navigation bar — expressed as a function that returns markup. React builds a tree of these components. When data changes, React re-runs the affected component functions, produces a new description of the UI (the Virtual DOM), compares it against the previous one, and updates only the parts of the real DOM that actually changed. This diffing process is called reconciliation, and understanding it explains almost every performance concept that follows.
Why this matters
Re-rendering is not the same as updating the DOM. A component can re-run many times while the browser repaints very little.
Most performance work in React is about avoiding unnecessary re-renders and unnecessary recalculations — not about the DOM itself.
3.2 State — useState
State is data that belongs to a component and changes over time, such as the text in an input box or whether a menu is open. When state changes, the component re-renders to reflect the new value. In React this is managed with the useState hook.
Basic counter with useState
const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
 
// count      -> current value (0 on first render)
// setCount   -> function to update it and trigger a re-render
 
<button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
  Clicked {count} times
</button>
Key rules of state: never modify state directly (do not write count++); always use the setter. State updates are asynchronous and may be batched, so the new value is not available on the very next line — it is available on the next render. Treat state as immutable: to update an object or array, create a new copy rather than mutating the existing one.
// WRONG - mutates existing state, React may not re-render
user.name = 'Asha'; setUser(user);
 
// RIGHT - new object, React detects the change
setUser({ ...user, name: 'Asha' });
3.3 Side Effects — useEffect
Rendering should be pure: given the same props and state, a component should produce the same output with no outside interaction. But real apps need to fetch data, set up subscriptions, or talk to the browser. These are side effects, and they belong inside useEffect, which runs after the render is committed to the screen.
Fetching data when userId changes
useEffect(() => {
  // runs after render
  fetchUser(userId).then(setUser);
 
  return () => {
    // cleanup: runs before the next effect or on unmount
    cancelRequest();
  };
}, [userId]); // dependency array
The dependency array is the most important and most misunderstood part. It tells React when to re-run the effect:
•	[]  — run once after the first render only (e.g. initial data load).
•	[userId]  — run on first render and again whenever userId changes.
•	omitted  — run after every render. Almost always a bug, and a common cause of infinite loops.
Common useEffect mistakes
Forgetting the cleanup function for subscriptions or timers, causing memory leaks.
Leaving values out of the dependency array, so the effect reads stale data.
Putting logic in useEffect that should just be calculated during render — not every computation is a side effect.
3.4 Memoization — useMemo and useCallback
Memoization means caching the result of an expensive computation so it is not repeated unless its inputs change. Because a component re-runs on every render, any heavy calculation inside it runs every time — even when its inputs did not change. useMemo caches a computed value; useCallback caches a function definition.
// Without useMemo: sortBigList runs on EVERY render
const sorted = sortBigList(items);
 
// With useMemo: only re-sorts when 'items' changes
const sorted = useMemo(() => sortBigList(items), [items]);
 
// useCallback: keeps the same function reference between renders
const handleClick = useCallback(() => save(id), [id]);
When to use them: not everywhere. Memoization itself has a small cost. Reach for it when a computation is genuinely expensive, or when you are passing a value or function to a child component wrapped in React.memo that re-renders too often. Premature memoization clutters code without measurable benefit — measure first, then optimise.
React.memo — wraps a component so it skips re-rendering when its props have not changed. Pairs naturally with useCallback and useMemo, which keep those props referentially stable.
3.5 Lazy Loading and Code Splitting
By default a bundler packages your entire application into one JavaScript file the user must download before anything appears. As an app grows this becomes slow. Code splitting breaks the bundle into smaller chunks that load on demand; lazy loading is the technique of deferring a chunk until it is actually needed — for example, only loading the admin dashboard code when a user navigates to it.
Route-level lazy loading
import { lazy, Suspense } from 'react';
 
// Dashboard code is downloaded only when rendered
const Dashboard = lazy(() => import('./Dashboard'));
 
<Suspense fallback={<Spinner />}>
  <Dashboard />
</Suspense>
•	Lazy loading images: use the native loading="lazy" attribute so off-screen images load only as the user scrolls toward them.
•	Route-based splitting: the most effective starting point — load each page's code only when the user visits that route.
•	The trade-off: more chunks mean more network requests; group code sensibly rather than splitting everything.
3.6 Other Core Frontend Concepts
Props — read-only data passed from a parent component to a child. Data flows down; a child never modifies its own props.
Lifting state up — when two components need the same data, move that state to their closest common parent and pass it down, keeping a single source of truth.
Controlled components — form inputs whose value is driven by React state, so the UI and the data never drift apart.
Conditional rendering — showing different UI based on state, e.g. a spinner while loading and the data once it arrives.
Keys in lists — a stable, unique key on each list item lets React track items efficiently during reconciliation. Never use the array index as a key for lists that reorder.
Custom hooks — extract reusable stateful logic into a function whose name starts with 'use', so multiple components can share behaviour without duplication.
Debouncing & throttling — limit how often expensive handlers (search-as-you-type, scroll, resize) actually run, improving responsiveness.
Frontend performance checklist
Avoid unnecessary re-renders: memoize where it measurably helps.
Split and lazy-load large routes and heavy components.
Keep state as local as possible; lift it only when sharing is required.
Always provide stable keys in lists.
Measure with browser dev tools before optimising — do not guess.
 
4. Backend Development In Depth
The backend is the engine room of an application. It receives requests, enforces business rules and security, talks to the database, and returns responses. Users never see it directly, but it determines whether an application is correct, secure, and fast. The concepts below apply regardless of language — whether you write Node.js, Python, Java, or C#.
4.1 The Request–Response Lifecycle
Every backend interaction follows the same shape: a client sends an HTTP request to an endpoint; the server routes it to the correct handler; middleware runs (logging, authentication, parsing); the handler executes business logic and queries the database; and a response with a status code and body is returned. Holding this lifecycle in mind makes debugging far easier — you can reason about exactly where something went wrong.
HTTP method	Purpose	Typical use
GET	Read data (no side effects)	Fetch a list of orders
POST	Create a new resource	Register a user
PUT / PATCH	Update a resource (full / partial)	Edit a profile
DELETE	Remove a resource	Delete a comment
Status range	Meaning	Example
2xx	Success	200 OK, 201 Created
3xx	Redirection	301 Moved Permanently
4xx	Client error	400 Bad Request, 401 Unauthorized, 404 Not Found
5xx	Server error	500 Internal Server Error
4.2 Designing a Good REST API
A REST API exposes resources through predictable URLs. Good design makes an API intuitive to consume and easy to maintain.
•	Use nouns, not verbs: /users/42/orders  not  /getUserOrders?id=42.
•	Let the HTTP method express the action; the URL names the resource.
•	Return the right status code — do not return 200 with an error message inside.
•	Version your API (e.g. /v1/) so you can evolve it without breaking existing clients.
•	Validate every input on the server; never trust data coming from the client.
Idempotency — calling the same operation multiple times has the same effect as calling it once. GET, PUT, and DELETE should be idempotent; POST typically is not. This matters for safe retries on network failures.
4.3 Middleware
Middleware is a function that sits between the incoming request and the final handler, running in a chain. Each piece does one job — parsing the request body, logging, checking authentication, handling errors — and then passes control to the next. This keeps cross-cutting concerns out of your business logic.
Order matters: middleware runs top to bottom
// Express-style middleware chain
app.use(logger);          // 1. log every request
app.use(express.json());  // 2. parse JSON body
app.use(authenticate);    // 3. verify the user's token
 
app.get('/orders', getOrders); // 4. the actual handler
 
app.use(errorHandler);    // 5. catch and format errors
4.4 Authentication and Authorization
Authentication — verifying who a user is (logging in).
Authorization — verifying what an authenticated user is allowed to do (permissions and roles).
Modern APIs commonly use token-based authentication. After login the server issues a signed token (often a JWT) that the client sends with each subsequent request. The server verifies the signature rather than storing session state, which scales well across multiple servers.
Security non-negotiables
Never store passwords in plain text — always hash them with a strong algorithm such as bcrypt or Argon2.
Never trust client input: validate, sanitise, and use parameterised queries to prevent SQL injection.
Keep secrets (keys, tokens, DB credentials) in environment variables, never in source code.
Use HTTPS everywhere; enforce least-privilege access for every role.
4.5 Synchronous vs. Asynchronous and Concurrency
Backends spend much of their time waiting — for the database, for other services, for the file system. Blocking the program during each wait wastes resources. Asynchronous programming lets the server start an operation, continue handling other work, and resume when the result is ready. In JavaScript this is expressed with promises and async/await.
// async/await: reads like sequential code, runs without blocking
async function getDashboard(userId) {
  const user   = await db.findUser(userId);
  const orders = await db.findOrders(userId);
  return { user, orders };
}
 
// Run independent calls in parallel for speed
const [user, orders] = await Promise.all([
  db.findUser(userId),
  db.findOrders(userId),
]);
4.6 Other Core Backend Concepts
Environment configuration — separate settings for development, staging, and production, loaded from environment variables rather than hard-coded.
Caching — store frequently requested data (in memory or a cache like Redis) to avoid repeating expensive work and reduce database load.
Rate limiting — cap how many requests a client can make in a window, protecting the service from abuse and overload.
Logging & monitoring — record what the system does and surface errors and metrics, so problems are detected before users report them.
Error handling — fail gracefully with clear messages and correct status codes; never leak stack traces or internal details to clients.
Pagination — return large datasets in pages rather than all at once, protecting both server and client from overload.
Stateless services — keep no per-client state on the server between requests, so the app can scale horizontally across many instances.
 
5. Databases and Data Modelling
Data is the heart of almost every application. How you store and access it shapes performance, correctness, and how easily the system can grow. A third-year developer should understand both relational and non-relational stores and when each fits.
5.1 Relational vs. Non-Relational
Aspect	Relational (SQL)	Non-relational (NoSQL)
Structure	Tables with fixed schema, rows and columns	Documents, key-value, graphs — flexible schema
Best for	Structured data with clear relationships	Rapidly changing or unstructured data, huge scale
Examples	PostgreSQL, MySQL	MongoDB, Redis, Cassandra
Guarantees	Strong consistency (ACID)	Often favours availability and scale
5.2 Normalization
Normalization is organising tables to reduce duplicated data and prevent inconsistencies. Instead of repeating a customer's address on every order, you store the customer once and reference them by ID. This keeps a single source of truth: change the address in one place and every order reflects it. Sometimes teams deliberately denormalize — duplicating data for read speed — but that is a conscious trade-off, not an accident.
5.3 Indexing
An index is a data structure the database maintains to find rows quickly, much like the index at the back of a book. Without one, finding a record means scanning every row (a full table scan). With an index on, say, the email column, lookups by email become near-instant.
The indexing trade-off
Indexes dramatically speed up reads on the indexed columns.
But they slow down writes (inserts/updates must also update the index) and use extra storage.
Index the columns you frequently search or join on — not every column.
5.4 Transactions and ACID
A transaction groups several operations so they succeed or fail as a single unit. The classic example is a bank transfer: debiting one account and crediting another must both happen, or neither should. Relational databases guarantee this through ACID properties.
Atomicity — all operations in a transaction complete, or none do.
Consistency — the database moves from one valid state to another, never a broken in-between.
Isolation — concurrent transactions do not interfere with each other's intermediate results.
Durability — once committed, the data survives crashes and power loss.
5.5 Other Essential Data Concepts
Primary & foreign keys — a primary key uniquely identifies a row; a foreign key links a row to another table, expressing relationships.
JOINs — combine rows from related tables in a single query (inner, left, right, full).
N+1 query problem — accidentally running one query per item in a loop instead of one combined query — a frequent and severe performance bug.
Connection pooling — reuse a fixed set of database connections instead of opening a new one per request.
Migrations — version-controlled, repeatable changes to the database schema, applied consistently across environments.
 
6. Software Architecture: Why and How
Architecture is the set of high-level decisions about how a system is organised: how code is divided, how the parts communicate, and how the system will grow and change. These decisions are the most expensive to reverse, so they deserve careful thought. Good architecture is largely invisible when it works; its absence shows up as bugs that multiply, changes that feel risky, and onboarding that takes weeks.
6.1 Why Architecture Matters
•	Maintainability — well-structured code is easy to read, fix, and extend months or years later.
•	Scalability — clear boundaries let parts of the system grow independently as load increases.
•	Collaboration — separation lets many developers work in parallel without colliding.
•	Testability — isolated components can be tested with confidence, catching defects early.
•	Cost — decisions made early are cheap to change; the same decisions made late are very expensive.
6.2 Core Design Principles
Separation of concerns — each module handles one responsibility — presentation, business logic, and data access stay in distinct layers.
DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) — express each piece of logic once; duplication breeds inconsistency when one copy is updated and another is forgotten.
Single source of truth — every piece of data has one authoritative home; everything else references it.
Loose coupling — components depend on each other as little as possible, so one can change without breaking others.
High cohesion — related code lives together, making modules easy to understand and reuse.
SOLID principles — five object-oriented guidelines (Single responsibility, Open/closed, Liskov substitution, Interface segregation, Dependency inversion) that lead to flexible, maintainable code.
6.3 Common Architectural Patterns
Pattern	Idea	When it fits
Layered (n-tier)	Separate presentation, business, and data layers	Most standard web apps; a strong default
MVC	Model (data), View (UI), Controller (logic)	Apps with clear UI and data separation
Client-Server	Frontend requests, backend serves	Virtually all web applications
Microservices	Many small, independently deployed services	Large systems, big teams, independent scaling
Monolith	One deployable unit containing everything	Early-stage products and small teams
Choosing an architecture
Start simple. A well-organised monolith beats premature microservices for most teams.
Let real requirements drive complexity — not hype or imagined future scale.
Ask three questions of any design: Is it readable? Is it easy to change? Is it the simplest thing that works?
6.4 Mistakes to Avoid
•	Putting all logic in one giant file because it 'works for now'.
•	Copy-pasting code instead of extracting a reusable function or module.
•	Designing for imaginary scale instead of the real, current need (over-engineering).
•	Mixing frontend, backend, and database concerns in the same place.
•	Tight coupling that makes a small change ripple across the whole codebase.
 
7. Maintaining a Healthy GitHub Repository
GitHub is where your work lives, is reviewed, and is shared. A well-maintained repository signals professionalism and makes everyone's work smoother. The habits below should become automatic.
7.1 Repository Hygiene
•	Write a clear README: what the project does, how to install it, how to run it, how to contribute.
•	Maintain a .gitignore so dependencies, build output, and secrets are never committed.
•	Never commit passwords, API keys, or tokens — use environment variables and a .env file that is git-ignored.
•	Organise files into logical folders; a tidy structure is a kindness to your teammates.
•	Tag releases with semantic version numbers (e.g. v1.4.0) so history is easy to follow.
•	Use issues and a project board to track work transparently.
7.2 Writing Good Commit Messages
A commit message explains why a change was made. Use a short imperative summary (under ~50 characters), and add a body when more context helps. A widely used convention is Conventional Commits, which prefixes the type of change.
Conventional Commit examples
feat: add pagination to the orders endpoint
fix: prevent login redirect loop on expired sessions
refactor: extract payment logic into its own service
docs: update README with local setup steps
test: add unit tests for the discount calculator
Poor message	Good message
fixed stuff	fix: handle null user in profile loader
update	feat: add CSV export to reports page
asdf	refactor: remove duplicate validation logic
changes	docs: document the authentication flow
7.3 Branching Strategy
Never commit directly to main. Create a focused branch per task, keep it small, and merge it back through review.
•	main  — always stable and deployable.
•	develop  — (optional) integration branch where features come together before release.
•	feature/<name>  — new functionality, e.g. feature/user-profile.
•	bugfix/<name>  — fixes for known issues, e.g. bugfix/cart-total.
•	hotfix/<name>  — urgent fixes branched directly from main.
Golden rules for repo health
Commit often, in small logical chunks — never one giant commit at the end.
Pull the latest changes before you start work each day.
Delete branches once they are merged to keep the repository clean.
Protect the main branch: require reviews and passing checks before merge.
 
8. Working Collaboratively and Effectively in Git
Software is a team sport, and Git is what lets many people work on one codebase without chaos — but only if everyone shares the same habits. This section covers the everyday workflow, the commands you must know, and how to be a good collaborator.
8.1 The Everyday Workflow
8.	Pull the latest main branch so you start from current code.
9.	Create a new branch for your specific task.
10.	Make small, focused commits as you work.
11.	Push your branch to GitHub regularly so work is backed up and visible.
12.	Open a Pull Request (PR) when the work is ready for review.
13.	Address review feedback, then merge once approved and checks pass.
14.	Delete the branch and pull the updated main.
8.2 Essential Git Commands
Command	What it does
git clone <url>	Copy a remote repository to your machine
git pull	Fetch and merge the latest changes from remote
git checkout -b feature/x	Create and switch to a new branch
git add . ; git commit -m "..."	Stage changes and save a commit
git push origin <branch>	Upload your branch to GitHub
git status / git log / git diff	Inspect changes, history, and differences
git stash	Temporarily shelve uncommitted changes
git rebase / git merge	Integrate changes from another branch
8.3 Pull Requests and Code Review
A Pull Request is where collaboration and quality control happen. It is not a formality — it is how the team keeps standards high and shares knowledge. Approach reviews with humility and generosity, whether you are the author or the reviewer.
When you open a PR
•	Describe what changed and why so reviewers have context.
•	Keep it small — a focused PR is reviewed faster and more thoroughly.
•	Link the related issue, and add screenshots or recordings for UI changes.
•	Make sure tests and linters pass before requesting review.
When you review a PR
•	Be kind and specific; critique the code, never the person.
•	Ask questions where you are unsure rather than issuing commands.
•	Distinguish must-fix issues from optional suggestions ('nit:').
•	Approve generously when the work is good — encouragement matters.
8.4 Handling Merge Conflicts
A merge conflict happens when two people change the same lines and Git cannot decide which to keep. Conflicts are normal, not a failure. Pull frequently to keep them small, read both versions carefully before resolving, test after resolving, and ask a teammate when you are unsure which change should win.
What a conflict looks like in the file
<<<<<<< HEAD
const tax = price * 0.18;   // your change
=======
const tax = price * 0.20;   // their change
>>>>>>> feature/new-tax
 
// Decide the correct value, remove the markers, then commit.
Collaboration etiquette
Communicate before starting work that might overlap with someone else's.
Never force-push to a shared branch — you may erase a teammate's work.
Keep PRs small and frequent rather than huge and rare.
Leave the codebase a little better than you found it.
 
9. DevOps, Testing, and Quality
Writing code is only half the job; getting it safely and repeatedly into users' hands is the other half. These practices separate hobby projects from professional engineering and are expected knowledge for any graduating developer.
9.1 Version Control as the Foundation
Everything that follows — automated testing, continuous integration, repeatable deployments — is built on disciplined version control. If your Git habits are solid, the rest becomes much easier.
9.2 Testing
Unit tests — verify a single function or component in isolation. Fast, numerous, and the foundation of confidence.
Integration tests — verify that several parts work correctly together, e.g. an API endpoint with its database.
End-to-end (E2E) tests — drive the whole application as a user would, in a real browser, to catch issues nothing else can.
A healthy project has many fast unit tests, fewer integration tests, and a small number of E2E tests — the 'testing pyramid'. Tests are documentation that cannot go out of date: they describe how the system is meant to behave.
9.3 Continuous Integration & Deployment (CI/CD)
Continuous Integration (CI) — every push automatically runs the build, tests, and linters, so problems are caught within minutes rather than days.
Continuous Deployment (CD) — code that passes all checks is automatically released to staging or production, making releases small, frequent, and low-risk.
Why CI/CD matters to you
Small, automated releases are far safer than big manual ones.
If a PR turns the pipeline red, fixing it is your immediate priority — a broken main blocks the whole team.
Automation removes human error from repetitive, critical steps.
9.4 Containers and Environments
Containers (Docker) — package an application with everything it needs so it runs identically on every machine — ending 'it works on my machine' problems.
Environment parity — keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible to avoid surprises at release time.
Infrastructure as code — describe servers and services in version-controlled files, so environments are reproducible and auditable.
 
10. Effective Prompting for AI Tools
AI assistants are now part of a developer's daily toolkit. Used well, they accelerate writing, debugging, and learning. Used poorly, they produce confident nonsense that wastes time. The quality of what you get out depends almost entirely on the quality of what you put in. Treat the AI as a fast, capable pair-programmer who needs clear direction and whose work you always verify.
10.1 The Anatomy of a Strong Prompt
Element	Why it helps	Example phrase
Role / context	Frames the kind of answer you want	"You are reviewing React code…"
Specific task	States exactly what to produce or fix	"Explain why this throws and fix it"
Constraints	Bounds the solution	"Use only the standard library"
Examples	Shows the desired input/output shape	"Format like: {name, age}"
Output format	Controls the response shape	"Reply with code only, no prose"
10.2 Weak vs. Strong Prompts
Weak prompt	Strong prompt
fix my code	This React component throws 'cannot read map of undefined' on first render. Here is the code and the error. Explain the cause, then give the corrected version.
make a login page	Create a responsive login form in React with email and password fields, inline validation messages, and a disabled submit button until both fields are valid.
explain APIs	Explain REST APIs to a third-year student using one real-world analogy and a short Express example with two endpoints.
optimise this	This function takes 4 seconds on a 10,000-item array. Identify the bottleneck and rewrite it to run in linear time, keeping the same output.
10.3 Techniques That Improve Results
Be specific — vague questions get vague answers. Replace 'make it better' with the exact change you want.
Provide context — paste the relevant code, the full error message, the language, and the framework version.
Ask for reasoning — request a step-by-step explanation so you actually learn and can spot mistakes.
Iterate — treat the first answer as a draft. Refine your prompt with what was wrong rather than starting over.
Decompose — break a large task into smaller, clearly scoped requests — it improves accuracy on every part.
Give examples (few-shot) — showing one or two examples of the desired output guides the model far better than description alone.
Constrain the output — specify language, length, libraries to use or avoid, and the exact format you need back.
10.4 Using AI Responsibly as a Developer
The rules that matter most
AI is an assistant, not a replacement for understanding — never ship code you cannot explain.
Always read, test, and review generated code; you remain fully responsible for it.
Never paste secrets, credentials, or proprietary/customer data into external AI tools.
Verify factual and security-sensitive claims independently — models can be confidently wrong.
Use AI to learn faster, not to skip learning.
10.5 A Reusable Prompt Template
Copy, fill in the brackets, and adapt
Context : I'm building [what] using [language/framework + version].
Goal    : I want to [specific outcome].
Problem : Currently [what happens / the error message].
Code    : [paste the relevant snippet]
Ask     : [explain the cause / fix it / refactor / write tests],
          and tell me WHY so I understand it.
Format  : [code only / step-by-step / a table / under 200 words]
 
11. Your Path Forward
Becoming a strong full-stack developer is a journey of steady, consistent practice. Focus less on memorising syntax and more on understanding how things connect. Write code every day, read other people's code, ask questions without embarrassment, and treat every bug as a lesson rather than a setback.
11.1 Habits That Compound
•	Build small projects end to end — they teach more than any tutorial.
•	Read and review others' pull requests to absorb good patterns and conventions.
•	Practise Git until the everyday commands feel automatic.
•	Learn one concept deeply each week rather than skimming ten.
•	Write tests — they teach you to think about edge cases.
•	Stay curious and kind; the best engineers lift their teammates up.
11.2 A 90-Day Starter Roadmap
Phase	Focus	Outcome
Weeks 1–3	Git fluency, HTML/CSS/JS fundamentals	Comfortable contributing small PRs
Weeks 4–6	React: state, effects, components	Build an interactive frontend feature
Weeks 7–9	Backend: REST APIs, auth, databases	Build and consume a working API
Weeks 10–12	Architecture, testing, CI/CD	Ship a full-stack feature with tests

You belong here. Keep building.
— The Glimmora International Training Team
